doc/src/testnet/merge-mining.md, before:

DarkFi x Monero Merge Mining using p2pool and xmrig
===================================================

This document provides a way to set up a Monero testnet that is
able to merge-mine DarkFi using `p2pool` and `xmrig`.

Please read the whole document first before executing commands, to
understand all the steps required and how each component operates.
Unless instructed otherwise, each daemon runs on its own shell, so
don't stop a running one to start another.

Each command to execute will be inside a codeblock, on its first line,
marked by the user `$` symbol, followed by the expected output. For
longer command outputs, some lines will be emmited to keep the guide
simple.

## Build binaries from source

We can build Monero, `p2pool` and `xmrig` from their respective source
code repositories. Make sure you are not in the DarkFi repository
folder as we are going to retrieve external repos.

### Monero

First install its [dependencies][1] and then retrieve its repo and
checkout the latest release tag:

```shell
$ git clone --recursive https://github.com/monero-project/monero
$ cd monero
$ git checkout $(git describe --tags "$(git rev-list --tags --max-count=1)")
$ git submodule update --init
```

Now we can build it:

```shell
$ make -j$(nproc)

...
make[1]: Leaving directory '/home/anon/monero/build/Linux/_HEAD_detached_at_v0.18.4.4_/release'
```

Navigate to the directory listed at the end of build command where the
compiled binaries exist:

```shell
$ cd build/Linux/_HEAD_detached_at_v0.18.4.4_/release
$ cd bin
```

The path might look different in your system depending on your OS and
latest tag.

### p2pool

Enter a new shell outside of previously build Monero repo folder,
install `p2pool` [dependencies][2] and then retrieve its repo and
checkout the latest release tag:

```shell
$ git clone --recursive https://github.com/SChernykh/p2pool
$ cd p2pool
$ git checkout $(git describe --tags "$(git rev-list --tags --max-count=1)")
$ git submodule update --init
```

Now we can build it:

```shell
$ mkdir build
```

If you have already build `p2pool` above command will fail as folder
already exists, so just continue to next ones:

```shell
$ cd build
$ cmake ..
$ make -j$(nproc)
```

The binary now exists in the current directory.

### xmrig

Enter a new shell outside of previously build `p2pool` repo folder,
install `xmrig` [dependencies][3] and then retrieve its repo and
checkout the latest release tag:

```
$ git clone --recursive https://github.com/xmrig/xmrig
$ cd xmrig
$ git checkout $(git describe --tags "$(git rev-list --tags --max-count=1)")
```

Now we can build it:

```shell
$ mkdir build
```

If you have already build `xmrig` above command will fail as folder
already exists, so just continue to next ones:

```shell
$ cd build
$ cmake ..
$ make -j$(nproc)
```

The binary now exists in the current directory.

## Monero setup

We should first sync the Monero Testnet locally. We can simply do this
by returning back to our Monero shell, starting up `monerod` and
waiting for the sync to finish:

```shell
$ ./monerod --testnet --no-igd --data-dir bitmonero --log-level 0 --hide-my-port --add-peer 125.229.105.12:28081 --add-peer 37.187.74.171:28089 --fast-block-sync=1

2025-05-22 13:04:16.492 I Synced 3601/2754128 (0%, 2750527 left)
2025-05-22 13:04:27.315 I Synced 5801/2754128 (0%, 2748327 left)
...
2025-05-22 13:04:38.705 I Synced 8101/2754128 (0%, 2746027 left)
2025-05-22 13:04:44.676 I Synced 9301/2754128 (0%, 2744827 left)
2025-05-22 13:04:47.174 I Synced 9801/2754128 (0%, 2744327 left)
```

After the sync is finished, we will take the node offline and continue
our work locally. So quit the `monerod` node, and restart it offline
with fixed difficulty that will make our mining process faster:

```shell
$ ./monerod --testnet --no-igd --data-dir bitmonero --log-level 1 --hide-my-port --fixed-difficulty 20000 --disable-rpc-ban --offline --zmq-pub tcp://127.0.0.1:28083
```

Now we should also create a Monero wallet. On a new shell in the same
directory run `monero-wallet-cli` and follow the wizard to create a
wallet:

```shell
$ ./monero-wallet-cli --testnet --trusted-daemon

Generated new wallet: 9zMU...uQA4
View key: xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
**********************************************************************
Your wallet has been generated!
```

Now we have our Monero address that we can use with p2pool to receive
mining rewards.

## p2pool setup without merge-mining

First we'll start `p2pool` without merge-mining to make sure everything
works in order. After we get `xmrig` set up, we'll restart `p2pool`
with merge-mining enabled.

`p2pool` connects to `monerod`'s JSONRPC and ZMQ Pub ports in order to
retrieve necessary mining data. It also provides a Stratum mining
endpoint that `xmrig` is able to connect to in order to receive mining
jobs and actually mine the proposed blocks.

We can start `p2pool` with the following command:

```shell
$ ./p2pool --host 127.0.0.1 --rpc-port 28081 --zmq-port 28083 --wallet {YOUR_MONERO_WALLET_ADDRESS_HERE} --stratum 127.0.0.1:3333 --data-dir ./p2pool-data --no-igd
```

Once started, it should connect to `monerod` and retrieve the latest
blockchain info. Now we can proceed with `xmrig` to try and mine some
blocks.

## xmrig setup

`xmrig` is pretty simple. Just start it with a chosen number of threads
and point it to `p2pool` Stratum port. `-u x+1 20000` is defined by the
`--fixed-difficulty` setting we started `monerod` with. `-t 1` is the
number of CPU threads to use for mining. With a low difficulty, one
thread should be enough.

```shell
$ ./xmrig -u x+1 20000 -o 127.0.0.1:3333 -t 1
```

Now we should see blocks being mined in p2pool and submitted to our
Monero testnet. To stop mining you can `^C` xmrig anytime to quit it
or press `p` to pause mining.

## p2pool setup with merge-mining

Now that everything is in order, we can use `p2pool` with merge-mining
enabled in order to merge mine DarkFi. For receiving mining rewards
on DarkFi, we'll need a DarkFi wallet address so make sure you have
[initialized](node.md#wallet-initialization) your wallet and grab your
first address configuration:

```shell
drk> wallet mining-configuration 1

DarkFi TOML configuration:
recipient = "{YOUR_DARKFI_WALLET_ADDRESS}"
#spend_hook = ""
#user_data = ""

P2Pool wallet address to use:
{YOUR_P2POOL_WALLET_ADDRESS_CONFIGURATION}
```

We will also need `darkfid` running. Make sure you enable the RPC
endpoint that will be used by p2pool in darkfid's config:

```toml
[network_config."testnet".mm_rpc]
rpc_listen = "http+tcp://127.0.0.1:8341"
```

Then start `darkfid` as usual.

Stop `p2pool` if it's running, and re-run it with the merge-mining
parameters appended:

```shell
$ ./p2pool --host 127.0.0.1 --rpc-port 28081 --zmq-port 28083 --wallet {YOUR_MONERO_WALLET_ADDRESS_HERE} --stratum 127.0.0.1:3333 --data-dir ./p2pool-data --no-igd --merge-mine 127.0.0.1:8341 {YOUR_P2POOL_WALLET_ADDRESS_CONFIGURATION_HERE}
```

Now `p2pool` should communicate with both `monerod` and `darkfid` in
order to pick up Monero blocktemplates and inject them with DarkFi data
necessary for merge-mining verification on the DarkFi side. Re-run
`xmrig` and now we should be mining blocks again. Once blocks are
found, they will be submitted to both `monerod` and `darkfid` and
`darkfid` should verify them and release block rewards to the address
provided to `p2pool` merge-mine parameters.

Happy mining!

## Merge mining for a DAO

To retrieve a DAO merge mining configuration, execute:

```shell
drk> dao mining-config {YOUR_DAO}

DarkFi TOML configuration:
recipient = "{YOUR_DAO_NOTES_PUBLIC_KEY}"
spend_hook = "{DAO_CONTRACT_SPEND_HOOK}"
user_data = "{YOUR_DAO_BULLA}"

P2Pool wallet address to use:
{YOUR_DAO_P2POOL_WALLET_ADDRESS_CONFIGURATION}
```

Stop `p2pool` if it's running, and re-run it with the merge-mining
parameters appended:

```shell
$ ./p2pool --host 127.0.0.1 --rpc-port 28081 --zmq-port 28083 --wallet {YOUR_DAO_MONERO_WALLET_ADDRESS_HERE} --stratum 127.0.0.1:3333 --data-dir ./p2pool-data --no-igd --merge-mine 127.0.0.1:8341 {YOUR_DAO_P2POOL_WALLET_ADDRESS_CONFIGURATION}
```

After your miners have successfully mined confirmed blocks, you will
see the DAO `DRK` balance increasing:

```shell
drk> dao balance {YOUR_DAO}

 Token ID                                     | Aliases | Balance
----------------------------------------------+---------+---------
 241vANigf1Cy3ytjM1KHXiVECxgxdK4yApddL8KcLssb | DRK     | 80
```

[1]: https://github.com/monero-project/monero?tab=readme-ov-file#dependencies
[2]: https://github.com/SChernykh/p2pool?tab=readme-ov-file#prerequisites
[3]: https://xmrig.com/docs/miner/build

Commit message:

darkfid|drk|minerd: use the new Address format everywhere + minor cleanups and docs updates

doc/src/testnet/merge-mining.md, after:

DarkFi x Monero Merge Mining using p2pool and xmrig
===================================================

This document provides a way to set up a Monero testnet that is
able to merge-mine DarkFi using `p2pool` and `xmrig`.

Please read the whole document first before executing commands, to
understand all the steps required and how each component operates.
Unless instructed otherwise, each daemon runs on its own shell, so
don't stop a running one to start another.

Each command to execute will be inside a codeblock, on its first line,
marked by the user `$` symbol, followed by the expected output. For
longer command outputs, some lines will be emmited to keep the guide
simple.

## Build binaries from source

We can build Monero, `p2pool` and `xmrig` from their respective source
code repositories. Make sure you are not in the DarkFi repository
folder as we are going to retrieve external repos.

### Monero

First install its [dependencies][1] and then retrieve its repo and
checkout the latest release tag:

```shell
$ git clone --recursive https://github.com/monero-project/monero
$ cd monero
$ git checkout $(git describe --tags "$(git rev-list --tags --max-count=1)")
$ git submodule update --init
```

Now we can build it:

```shell
$ make -j$(nproc)

...
make[1]: Leaving directory '/home/anon/monero/build/Linux/_HEAD_detached_at_v0.18.4.4_/release'
```

Navigate to the directory listed at the end of build command where the
compiled binaries exist:

```shell
$ cd build/Linux/_HEAD_detached_at_v0.18.4.4_/release
$ cd bin
```

The path might look different in your system depending on your OS and
latest tag.

### p2pool

Enter a new shell outside of previously build Monero repo folder,
install `p2pool` [dependencies][2] and then retrieve its repo and
checkout the latest release tag:

```shell
$ git clone --recursive https://github.com/SChernykh/p2pool
$ cd p2pool
$ git checkout $(git describe --tags "$(git rev-list --tags --max-count=1)")
$ git submodule update --init
```

Now we can build it:

```shell
$ mkdir build
```

If you have already build `p2pool` above command will fail as folder
already exists, so just continue to next ones:

```shell
$ cd build
$ cmake ..
$ make -j$(nproc)
```

The binary now exists in the current directory.

### xmrig

Enter a new shell outside of previously build `p2pool` repo folder,
install `xmrig` [dependencies][3] and then retrieve its repo and
checkout the latest release tag:

```
$ git clone --recursive https://github.com/xmrig/xmrig
$ cd xmrig
$ git checkout $(git describe --tags "$(git rev-list --tags --max-count=1)")
```

Now we can build it:

```shell
$ mkdir build
```

If you have already build `xmrig` above command will fail as folder
already exists, so just continue to next ones:

```shell
$ cd build
$ cmake ..
$ make -j$(nproc)
```

The binary now exists in the current directory.

## Monero setup

We should first sync the Monero Testnet locally. We can simply do this
by returning back to our Monero shell, starting up `monerod` and
waiting for the sync to finish:

```shell
$ ./monerod --testnet --no-igd --data-dir bitmonero --log-level 0 --hide-my-port --add-peer 125.229.105.12:28081 --add-peer 37.187.74.171:28089 --fast-block-sync=1

2025-05-22 13:04:16.492 I Synced 3601/2754128 (0%, 2750527 left)
2025-05-22 13:04:27.315 I Synced 5801/2754128 (0%, 2748327 left)
...
2025-05-22 13:04:38.705 I Synced 8101/2754128 (0%, 2746027 left)
2025-05-22 13:04:44.676 I Synced 9301/2754128 (0%, 2744827 left)
2025-05-22 13:04:47.174 I Synced 9801/2754128 (0%, 2744327 left)
```

After the sync is finished, we will take the node offline and continue
our work locally. So quit the `monerod` node, and restart it offline
with fixed difficulty that will make our mining process faster:

```shell
$ ./monerod --testnet --no-igd --data-dir bitmonero --log-level 1 --hide-my-port --fixed-difficulty 20000 --disable-rpc-ban --offline --zmq-pub tcp://127.0.0.1:28083
```

Now we should also create a Monero wallet. On a new shell in the same
directory run `monero-wallet-cli` and follow the wizard to create a
wallet:

```shell
$ ./monero-wallet-cli --testnet --trusted-daemon

Generated new wallet: 9zMU...uQA4
View key: xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
**********************************************************************
Your wallet has been generated!
```

Now we have our Monero address that we can use with p2pool to receive
mining rewards.

## p2pool setup without merge-mining

First we'll start `p2pool` without merge-mining to make sure everything
works in order. After we get `xmrig` set up, we'll restart `p2pool`
with merge-mining enabled.

`p2pool` connects to `monerod`'s JSONRPC and ZMQ Pub ports in order to
retrieve necessary mining data. It also provides a Stratum mining
endpoint that `xmrig` is able to connect to in order to receive mining
jobs and actually mine the proposed blocks.

We can start `p2pool` with the following command:

```shell
$ ./p2pool --host 127.0.0.1 --rpc-port 28081 --zmq-port 28083 --wallet {YOUR_MONERO_WALLET_ADDRESS_HERE} --stratum 127.0.0.1:3333 --data-dir ./p2pool-data --no-igd
```

Once started, it should connect to `monerod` and retrieve the latest
blockchain info. Now we can proceed with `xmrig` to try and mine some
blocks.

## xmrig setup

`xmrig` is pretty simple. Just start it with a chosen number of threads
and point it to `p2pool` Stratum port. `-u x+1 20000` is defined by the
`--fixed-difficulty` setting we started `monerod` with. `-t 1` is the
number of CPU threads to use for mining. With a low difficulty, one
thread should be enough.

```shell
$ ./xmrig -u x+1 20000 -o 127.0.0.1:3333 -t 1
```

Now we should see blocks being mined in p2pool and submitted to our
Monero testnet. To stop mining you can `^C` xmrig anytime to quit it
or press `p` to pause mining.

## p2pool setup with merge-mining

> NOTE: `p2pool` uses plain `http` connections for RPC calls, as its
> assumed to be running on a localnet. Don't run a `p2pool` instance
> with a `darkfid` instance outside of your network, since someone
> snooping your traffic can see your wallet address used for the block
> rewards.

Now that everything is in order, we can use `p2pool` with merge-mining
enabled in order to merge mine DarkFi. For receiving mining rewards
on DarkFi, we'll need a DarkFi wallet address so make sure you have
[initialized](node.md#wallet-initialization) your wallet and grab your
first address configuration:

```shell
drk> wallet mining-configuration 1

DarkFi TOML configuration:
recipient = "{YOUR_DARKFI_WALLET_ADDRESS}"
#spend_hook = ""
#user_data = ""

P2Pool wallet address to use:
{YOUR_P2POOL_WALLET_ADDRESS_CONFIGURATION}
```

We will also need `darkfid` running. Make sure you enable the RPC
endpoint that will be used by p2pool in darkfid's config:

```toml
[network_config."testnet".mm_rpc]
rpc_listen = "http+tcp://127.0.0.1:8341"
```

Then start `darkfid` as usual.

Stop `p2pool` if it's running, and re-run it with the merge-mining
parameters appended:

```shell
$ ./p2pool --host 127.0.0.1 --rpc-port 28081 --zmq-port 28083 --wallet {YOUR_MONERO_WALLET_ADDRESS_HERE} --stratum 127.0.0.1:3333 --data-dir ./p2pool-data --no-igd --merge-mine 127.0.0.1:8341 {YOUR_P2POOL_WALLET_ADDRESS_CONFIGURATION_HERE}
```

Now `p2pool` should communicate with both `monerod` and `darkfid` in
order to pick up Monero blocktemplates and inject them with DarkFi data
necessary for merge-mining verification on the DarkFi side. Re-run
`xmrig` and now we should be mining blocks again. Once blocks are
found, they will be submitted to both `monerod` and `darkfid` and
`darkfid` should verify them and release block rewards to the address
provided to `p2pool` merge-mine parameters.

Happy mining!

## Merge mining for a DAO

To retrieve a DAO merge mining configuration, execute:

```shell
drk> dao mining-config {YOUR_DAO}

DarkFi TOML configuration:
recipient = "{YOUR_DAO_WALLET_ADDRESS}"
spend_hook = "{DAO_CONTRACT_SPEND_HOOK}"
user_data = "{YOUR_DAO_BULLA}"

P2Pool wallet address to use:
{YOUR_DAO_P2POOL_WALLET_ADDRESS_CONFIGURATION}
```

Stop `p2pool` if it's running, and re-run it with the merge-mining
parameters appended:

```shell
$ ./p2pool --host 127.0.0.1 --rpc-port 28081 --zmq-port 28083 --wallet {YOUR_DAO_MONERO_WALLET_ADDRESS_HERE} --stratum 127.0.0.1:3333 --data-dir ./p2pool-data --no-igd --merge-mine 127.0.0.1:8341 {YOUR_DAO_P2POOL_WALLET_ADDRESS_CONFIGURATION}
```

After your miners have successfully mined confirmed blocks, you will
see the DAO `DRK` balance increasing:

```shell
drk> dao balance {YOUR_DAO}

 Token ID                                     | Aliases | Balance
----------------------------------------------+---------+---------
 241vANigf1Cy3ytjM1KHXiVECxgxdK4yApddL8KcLssb | DRK     | 80
```

[1]: https://github.com/monero-project/monero?tab=readme-ov-file#dependencies
[2]: https://github.com/SChernykh/p2pool?tab=readme-ov-file#prerequisites
[3]: https://xmrig.com/docs/miner/build
