doc/src/misc/network-troubleshooting.md, before:

# Network troubleshooting

If you're having network issues, refer to this page to debug various 
issues. If you see inconsistencies in the docs: always trust 
`${DARKFI_REPO}/bin/darkirc/darkirc_config.toml` or whichever respective 
apps' repo config file. Documentation updates are a current WIP.

The default location for config files is `~/.config/darkfi`.

<u><b>Note</b></u>: throughout this page we generally assume you are using
`darkirc` since it's our main p2p app currently. If you're
using a different app such as `darkfid` or `taud`, the syntax remains
but the app name will change (for example, if using `taud`, 
the config file `~/.config/darkfi/darkirc_config.toml` 
would become `~/.config/darkfi/taud_config.toml`).

## Common net problems 

The most common problem in connecting to `darkirc` is the following:

```
[ERROR] [EVENTGRAPH] Sync: Could not find any DAG tips
[ERROR] Failed syncing DAG. Exiting.
Error: DagSyncFailed
```

This generally indicates that we were *unable to establish any P2P
connections*, and thus couldn't retrieve the message history required to
sync our messages locally within the time limit (DAG sync failed).

There are two main reasons why we would fail to establish a P2P connection:

1. Seed node is down or rejecting our connection
2. Our node does not have sufficient peers

If the seed node is down, you will see this message in the debug output:

```
ERROR] [P2P] Network reseed failed!
[WARN] [P2P] Unable to connect to seed [tcp+tls://lilith1.dark.fi:5262/]: IO error: connection refused
```

If it's a problem related to nodes, you will typically see a successful
seed connection like so:

```
[INFO] [P2P] Connected seed [tcp+tls://lilith1.dark.fi:5262/]
[INFO] [P2P] Disconnecting from seed [tcp+tls://lilith1.dark.fi:5262/]
```

Followed by multiple connection failed messages, like so:

```
[INFO] [P2P] Unable to connect outbound slot #5 [tcp+tls://example_peer:26661/]: IO error: connection refused
[INFO] [P2P] Unable to connect outbound slot #6 [tcp+tls://example_peer2:26661/]: IO error: host unreachable
```

### Seed node is down

If you get an error like this:

```
[WARN] [P2P] Unable to connect to seed [tcp+tls://lilith1.dark.fi:5262/]: IO error: connection refused
```

This means you are failing to establish a connection to the seed node.

<u><b>Note</b></u>: the IO error might not always read `connection refused`
but could be some other error such as `host unreachable`. Please note
this IO error as it is useful debugging info.

Here's what to do next:

#### It's my first time connecting to the network

If it's your first time connecting to the network, you local node does
not have a record of other peers it can connect to in case the seed node
is down. Please do the following:

1. Take careful note of the `IO error` that is written after `Unable to
connect to seed`.
2. Refer to [Error reporting](#error-reporting) section below.
3. You can set a peer such as `tcp+tls://example_peer:26661` in your
config file. Ask in the telegram community channel for an active peer
(here we are using a fake peer called `example_peer`. Then open the
config file at `~/.config/darkfi/darkirc_config.toml` and modify the `peers`
field with the provided peer as follows:

```
peers = ["tcp+tls://example_peer:26661"]
```

#### It's not my first time connecting to the network

If it's not your first time connecting to the network, you should be
able to establish connections to peers even if the seed node is down.

This is possible via a list of hosts that your darkirc node keeps locally.
You can inspect the hostlist as follows:

```
cat ~/.local/share/darkfi/darkirc/hostlist.tsv
```

If the list is empty, open `~/.config/darkfi/darkirc_config` and ensure
that the `hostlist` field is set with a path of your choosing.

For example:

```
hostlist = "~/.local/share/darkfi/darkirc/hostlist.tsv"
```

<u><b>Note</b></u>: If you are editing a line that is commented out, don't forget
to uncomment the line.

Then follow the steps in the above section 
[It's my first time connecting to the network](#its-my-first-time-connecting-to-the-network).

If the hostlist is not empty, retry the `darkirc` connection and carefully
note the connection errors that are happening from peers. See [Error reporting](#error-reporting) 
section below to report errors.
It might be simply the case that there are not enough peers on the
network, or perhaps there is another issue we are not aware of.

You can also check the liveness of peers using the `ping` tool. 
Refer to the [Ping tool](#ping-tool) section below for instructions. 

### Cannot establish peer connections

If you're able to connect to the seed but are failing to establish peer
connections, please retry the darkirc connection and carefully note the
connection errors that are happening from peers. See the
[Error reporting](#error-reporting) section to report errors.

### Cannot establish Tor onion connections

You may get an error like this:
```
[WARN] darError reportingkfi::net::transport::tor: error: tor: Onion Service not found: Failed to obtain hidden service circuit to ????.onion: Unable to download hidden service descriptor
```
This happens when [Arti](https://gitlab.torproject.org/tpo/core/arti/-/blob/main/README.md) 
gets corrupted due to internet downtime or other triggers. To fix this, 
we'll delete the directory:

1. Stop `darkirc` 
2. Stop `tor` daemon 
3. Remove `arti` cache folder located at `~/.local/share/arti` 
4. Start `tor` daemon 
5. Start `darkirc`

### DagSync spam

If you see a many rapid `EventReq` messages in the log, it is possible that there is
an incompatibility with your local `darkirc` database and the state of the network.

This can be resolved by deleting `~/.local/share/darkfi/darkirc_db/`

This is a known bug and we are working on a fix.

## dnet

dnet is a simple tui to explore darkfi p2p network topology. You can use 
dnet to gather more network information. dnet displays:

1. Active p2p nodes
2. Outgoing, incoming, manual and seed sessions
3. Each associated connection and recent messages.

To install and learn to use dnet, go [here](../learn/dchat/network-tools/using-dnet.md).
You can use dnet to view the network topology and see how your node 
interacts within the network. dnet log information is created in 
`${DARKFI_REPO}/bin/dnet/dnet.log`.

## Ping tool

You can ping any node to make sure it's online by using the provided
`ping` tool located at `${DARKFI_REPO}/script/ping`. Select a peer from 
your hostlist file. You can now use the `ping` tool by 
running this command (assuming nightly is default):

```
$ cargo run -- tcp+tls://example_peer:26661
```
If nightly isn't default, use this command:

```
$ cargo +nightly run -- tcp+tls://example_peer:26661
```

If the peers are reachable, you'll receive a `Connected!` output.

## Inbound

To see if your address is reachable to others in the network, you'll need 
to use a separate device to `ping` your external address. 
[You can generate an external address here](nodes/tor-guide.md#inbound-node-settings).
For example purposes, let's assume your external address is 
`jamie3vkiwibfiwucd6vxijskbhpjdyajmzeor4mc4i7yopvpo4p7cyd.onion`. In 
`${DARKFI_REPO}/script/ping` we can attempt to `ping` your external address 
from a separate device. 

```
$ cargo run -- tor://jamie3vkiwiskbhpjdyajmzeor4mc4i7yopvpo4p7cyd.onion
```

If your external address is reachable, you'll receive a `Connected!` prompt.

## Check tor connection

You can verify if your local node is running over Tor. Execute this 
command in `${DARKFI_REPO}/script`. You'll need to install pysocks 
`pip install pysocks` prior to running `tor-test.py` the first time:

```
$ python tor-test.py 
```

If your local node is running Tor, the response should be an IP address.
An error will return if Tor isn't running.

You can also verify if your node is running over Tor with 
dnet. If you run `dnet` and you see onion addresses as
outbound connections, and localhost connections as inbound 
connections, this means you're connected to Tor.

## Helpful debug information

If you're looking to debug an issue, try these helpful tools.

### Logs in debug mode

You can run any app in debug mode as follows:

```
$ ./darkirc -vv
```

Alternatively, modify the config file at `~/.config/darkfi/darkirc.toml` as follows:

```toml
# Log to file. Off by default.
log = "/tmp/darkirc.log"
# Set log level. 1 is info (default), 2 is debug, 3 is trace
verbose = 2
```

### Peer Discovery

When running in debug mode, you will see `[INFO]` messages that indicate 
`PEER DISCOVERY`. This is healthy and expected behavior.

```
[INFO] net::outbound_session::peer_discovery(): [P2P] [PEER DISCOVERY] Asking peers for new peers to connect to...
```

### Config file

Your config files are generated in your `~/.config/darkfi` directory. 
You'll have to run each daemon once for the app to spawn a config file, 
which you can review and edit. There is also helpful information within 
the config files.

If experiencing connection issues review the configuration file for any mistakes. 
Check for duplicate variables.

### Node information script

If you're looking for information about your node, including inbound, 
outbound, and seed connections, execute this command in ``${DARKFI_REPO}/script``:

```
$ python node_get-info.py
```

### Hostlist issues

If you receive DAG sync issues, verify:

1. A hostlist is set in the config file of the respective app.
2. There are hosts in the hostlists (you should get hostlists from the 
default seed on the first run). You can find the hostlist files within 
the respective apps' repo. For example `darkirc`'s default hostlist location 
is `~/.local/share/darkfi/darkirc/hostlist.tsv`.

### Error reporting

If you're receiving errors and need to report them, report using `darkirc` first. If you
cannot connect, you can report these errors on the community telegram (t.me/darkfichat). 
- Don't send screenshots.
- Use [pastebin](https://pastebin.com/) (or [termbin](https://termbin.com/)
or another paste service) for multi-line errors, or just copy-paste for a single line error.

Commit message:

doc/misc/network-troubleshooting: add section on updating the system clock

doc/src/misc/network-troubleshooting.md, after:

# Network troubleshooting

If you're having network issues, refer to this page to debug various 
issues. If you see inconsistencies in the docs: always trust 
`${DARKFI_REPO}/bin/darkirc/darkirc_config.toml` or whichever respective 
apps' repo config file. Documentation updates are a current WIP.

The default location for config files is `~/.config/darkfi`.

<u><b>Note</b></u>: throughout this page we generally assume you are using
`darkirc` since it's our main p2p app currently. If you're
using a different app such as `darkfid` or `taud`, the syntax remains
but the app name will change (for example, if using `taud`, 
the config file `~/.config/darkfi/darkirc_config.toml` 
would become `~/.config/darkfi/taud_config.toml`).

## Common net problems 

The most common problem in connecting to `darkirc` is the following:

```
[ERROR] [EVENTGRAPH] Sync: Could not find any DAG tips
[ERROR] Failed syncing DAG. Exiting.
Error: DagSyncFailed
```

This generally indicates that we were *unable to establish any P2P
connections*, and thus couldn't retrieve the message history required to
sync our messages locally within the time limit (DAG sync failed).

There are two main reasons why we would fail to establish a P2P connection:

1. Seed node is down or rejecting our connection
2. Our node does not have sufficient peers

If the seed node is down, you will see this message in the debug output:

```
ERROR] [P2P] Network reseed failed!
[WARN] [P2P] Unable to connect to seed [tcp+tls://lilith1.dark.fi:5262/]: IO error: connection refused
```

If it's a problem related to nodes, you will typically see a successful
seed connection like so:

```
[INFO] [P2P] Connected seed [tcp+tls://lilith1.dark.fi:5262/]
[INFO] [P2P] Disconnecting from seed [tcp+tls://lilith1.dark.fi:5262/]
```

Followed by multiple connection failed messages, like so:

```
[INFO] [P2P] Unable to connect outbound slot #5 [tcp+tls://example_peer:26661/]: IO error: connection refused
[INFO] [P2P] Unable to connect outbound slot #6 [tcp+tls://example_peer2:26661/]: IO error: host unreachable
```

### Seed node is down

If you get an error like this:

```
[WARN] [P2P] Unable to connect to seed [tcp+tls://lilith1.dark.fi:5262/]: IO error: connection refused
```

This means you are failing to establish a connection to the seed node.

<u><b>Note</b></u>: the IO error might not always read `connection refused`
but could be some other error such as `host unreachable`. Please note
this IO error as it is useful debugging info.

Here's what to do next:

#### It's my first time connecting to the network

If it's your first time connecting to the network, you local node does
not have a record of other peers it can connect to in case the seed node
is down. Please do the following:

1. Take careful note of the `IO error` that is written after `Unable to
connect to seed`.
2. Refer to [Error reporting](#error-reporting) section below.
3. You can set a peer such as `tcp+tls://example_peer:26661` in your
config file. Ask in the telegram community channel for an active peer
(here we are using a fake peer called `example_peer`. Then open the
config file at `~/.config/darkfi/darkirc_config.toml` and modify the `peers`
field with the provided peer as follows:

```
peers = ["tcp+tls://example_peer:26661"]
```

#### It's not my first time connecting to the network

If it's not your first time connecting to the network, you should be
able to establish connections to peers even if the seed node is down.

This is possible via a list of hosts that your darkirc node keeps locally.
You can inspect the hostlist as follows:

```
cat ~/.local/share/darkfi/darkirc/hostlist.tsv
```

If the list is empty, open `~/.config/darkfi/darkirc_config` and ensure
that the `hostlist` field is set with a path of your choosing.

For example:

```
hostlist = "~/.local/share/darkfi/darkirc/hostlist.tsv"
```

<u><b>Note</b></u>: If you are editing a line that is commented out, don't forget
to uncomment the line.

Then follow the steps in the above section 
[It's my first time connecting to the network](#its-my-first-time-connecting-to-the-network).

If the hostlist is not empty, retry the `darkirc` connection and carefully
note the connection errors that are happening from peers. See [Error reporting](#error-reporting) 
section below to report errors.
It might be simply the case that there are not enough peers on the
network, or perhaps there is another issue we are not aware of.

You can also check the liveness of peers using the `ping` tool. 
Refer to the [Ping tool](#ping-tool) section below for instructions. 

### Cannot establish peer connections

If you're able to connect to the seed but are failing to establish peer
connections, please retry the darkirc connection and carefully note the
connection errors that are happening from peers. See the
[Error reporting](#error-reporting) section to report errors.

### Cannot establish Tor onion connections

You may get an error like this:
```
[WARN] darError reportingkfi::net::transport::tor: error: tor: Onion Service not found: Failed to obtain hidden service circuit to ????.onion: Unable to download hidden service descriptor
```
This happens when [Arti](https://gitlab.torproject.org/tpo/core/arti/-/blob/main/README.md) 
gets corrupted due to internet downtime or other triggers. To fix this, 
we'll delete the directory:

1. Stop `darkirc` 
2. Stop `tor` daemon 
3. Remove `arti` cache folder located at `~/.local/share/arti` 
4. Start `tor` daemon 
5. Start `darkirc`

### I'm connected but my messages do not go through

If you see something in the logs like this:

```
[INFO] [P2P] Outbound slot #1 connected [tcp-tls://example_peer:25551/] 
```

That means you are connected. You can verify that by writing `test` in
#random and seeing do you get a `test back` message.

If you do not get a `test back` message, that can mean either:

1. You need to wait for your DAG to sync (this can take several minutes,
especially over Tor or on days with high network activity).

2. You need to update your system clock. To sync the event graph,
darkirc requires that your system clock is correct. You can check your
system time by running `date`.  The best way to ensure your clock does
not drift is to run some timekeeping daemon like `chrony` or `ntpd`. If
your clock is wrong, set this up and try to reconnect again.

### DagSync spam

If you see a many rapid `EventReq` messages in the log, it is possible that there is
an incompatibility with your local `darkirc` database and the state of the network.

This can be resolved by deleting `~/.local/share/darkfi/darkirc_db/`

This is a known bug and we are working on a fix.

## dnet

dnet is a simple tui to explore darkfi p2p network topology. You can use 
dnet to gather more network information. dnet displays:

1. Active p2p nodes
2. Outgoing, incoming, manual and seed sessions
3. Each associated connection and recent messages.

To install and learn to use dnet, go [here](../learn/dchat/network-tools/using-dnet.md).
You can use dnet to view the network topology and see how your node 
interacts within the network. dnet log information is created in 
`${DARKFI_REPO}/bin/dnet/dnet.log`.

## Ping tool

You can ping any node to make sure it's online by using the provided
`ping` tool located at `${DARKFI_REPO}/script/ping`. Select a peer from 
your hostlist file. You can now use the `ping` tool by 
running this command (assuming nightly is default):

```
$ cargo run -- tcp+tls://example_peer:26661
```
If nightly isn't default, use this command:

```
$ cargo +nightly run -- tcp+tls://example_peer:26661
```

If the peers are reachable, you'll receive a `Connected!` output.

## Inbound

To see if your address is reachable to others in the network, you'll need 
to use a separate device to `ping` your external address. 
[You can generate an external address here](nodes/tor-guide.md#inbound-node-settings).
For example purposes, let's assume your external address is 
`jamie3vkiwibfiwucd6vxijskbhpjdyajmzeor4mc4i7yopvpo4p7cyd.onion`. In 
`${DARKFI_REPO}/script/ping` we can attempt to `ping` your external address 
from a separate device. 

```
$ cargo run -- tor://jamie3vkiwiskbhpjdyajmzeor4mc4i7yopvpo4p7cyd.onion
```

If your external address is reachable, you'll receive a `Connected!` prompt.

## Check tor connection

You can verify if your local node is running over Tor. Execute this 
command in `${DARKFI_REPO}/script`. You'll need to install pysocks 
`pip install pysocks` prior to running `tor-test.py` the first time:

```
$ python tor-test.py 
```

If your local node is running Tor, the response should be an IP address.
An error will return if Tor isn't running.

You can also verify if your node is running over Tor with 
dnet. If you run `dnet` and you see onion addresses as
outbound connections, and localhost connections as inbound 
connections, this means you're connected to Tor.

## Helpful debug information

If you're looking to debug an issue, try these helpful tools.

### Logs in debug mode

You can run any app in debug mode as follows:

```
$ ./darkirc -vv
```

Alternatively, modify the config file at `~/.config/darkfi/darkirc.toml` as follows:

```toml
# Log to file. Off by default.
log = "/tmp/darkirc.log"
# Set log level. 1 is info (default), 2 is debug, 3 is trace
verbose = 2
```

### Peer Discovery

When running in debug mode, you will see `[INFO]` messages that indicate 
`PEER DISCOVERY`. This is healthy and expected behavior.

```
[INFO] net::outbound_session::peer_discovery(): [P2P] [PEER DISCOVERY] Asking peers for new peers to connect to...
```

### Config file

Your config files are generated in your `~/.config/darkfi` directory. 
You'll have to run each daemon once for the app to spawn a config file, 
which you can review and edit. There is also helpful information within 
the config files.

If experiencing connection issues review the configuration file for any mistakes. 
Check for duplicate variables.

### Node information script

If you're looking for information about your node, including inbound, 
outbound, and seed connections, execute this command in ``${DARKFI_REPO}/script``:

```
$ python node_get-info.py
```

### Hostlist issues

If you receive DAG sync issues, verify:

1. A hostlist is set in the config file of the respective app.
2. There are hosts in the hostlists (you should get hostlists from the 
default seed on the first run). You can find the hostlist files within 
the respective apps' repo. For example `darkirc`'s default hostlist location 
is `~/.local/share/darkfi/darkirc/hostlist.tsv`.

### Error reporting

If you're receiving errors and need to report them, report using `darkirc` first. If you
cannot connect, you can report these errors on the community telegram (t.me/darkfichat). 
- Don't send screenshots.
- Use [pastebin](https://pastebin.com/) (or [termbin](https://termbin.com/)
or another paste service) for multi-line errors, or just copy-paste for a single line error.
