doc/src/philosophy/meetings.md, before:

# Discussion group

Every other Wednesday at 15:00 UTC/16:00 CET/10:00 EST, there is a meeting on
[darkirc](../misc/darkirc/darkirc.md) in `#philosophy`.  Come and discuss different
philosophy texts with fellow community members.

Meeting schedule: 

| Title                                                                                                               | Date                    | Author                             |
|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------|------------------------------------|
| [Free software philosophy and open source][1]                                                                       |1st of May, 2024         | Tere Vadén, Niklas Vainio          |
| [Do Artifacts Have Politics?][2]                                                                                    | 16th of May, 2024       | Langdon Winner                     |
| [The Moral Character of Cryptographic Work][3]                                                                      | 26th of June, 2024      | Philip Rogaway                     |
| [Gold and Glory in Times of Thought-Chaos][4]                                                                       | 10th of July, 2024      | Charlotte Fang                     |
| [The Rainbow and the Worm][5]                                                                                       | 24th of July, 2024      | Mae-Wan Ho                         |
| [Squad Wealth][6]                                                                                                   | 7th of August, 2024     | Sam Hart, Toby Shorin, Laura Lotti |
| [Infocracy: Digitization and the Crisis of Democracy][7]                                                            | 4th of September, 2024  | Byung-Chul Han                     |
| [The System's Neatest Trick][8]                                                                                     | 18th of September, 2024 | Theodore Kaczynski                 |
| Rescheduled                                                                                                         | 2nd of October, 2024    |                                    |
| [Political Theology][9]                                                                                             | 16th of October, 2024   | Carl Schmitt                       |
| [Ganienkeh Manifesto][10]                                                                                           | 30th of October, 2024   | [Mohawk Nation][11]                |
| Rescheduled                                                                                                         | 13th of November, 2024  |                                    |
| [A New Nationalism for the New Ireland][12]/[Complimentary Reading - Solutions to the Northern Ireland Problem][13] | 27th of November, 2024  | Desmond Fennell                    |
| [Two Cheers for Anarchism][14] - Chapter 2, starting at 'Fragment 7', all of Chapter 4			                  | 11th of December, 2024  | James C. Scott                     |
| Rescheduled                                                                                                         | 25th of December, 2024  |                                    |
| [Will to Power][15] - Extracts (see PDF)                                                                            | 8th of January, 2025    | Friedrich Nietzsche                |
| Post Capitalist Desire, Lecture 1 - [from 1:11:30 to 2:42:00 on Youtube][16] or pages 35 to 78 in [the book][17]    | 22nd of January, 2025   | Mark Fisher                        |
| [Algorithmic Sovereignty][18] Core reading: Chapter 1 & 2                                                           | 5th of February, 2025   | Jaromil                            |
| [Economic Consequences of Organized Violence][19]                                                                   | 19th of February, 2025  | Frederick Lane                     |
| [Assassination Politics][20]                                                                                        | 12th of March, 2025     | [Jim Bell][21]                     |

Feel free to propose a text for a future meeting by sharing it in #philosophy.

[1]: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/290120192_Free_software_philosophy_and_open_source
[2]: https://faculty.cc.gatech.edu/~beki/cs4001/Winner.pdf
[3]: https://web.cs.ucdavis.edu/~rogaway/papers/moral-fn.pdf
[4]: https://goldenlight.mirror.xyz/LeUojosmx48SvEfspq1leuRTf7TJfYKJ_TtKpePczzU
[5]: https://libgen.is/book/index.php?md5=0450DE93292478112791E977474FA9BF
[6]: https://otherinter.net/research/squad-wealth/
[7]: https://libgen.is/book/index.php?md5=A0E3362AE17379B6F48CEAC520319422
[8]: https://theanarchistlibrary.org/library/ted-kaczynski-the-system-s-neatest-trick
[9]: https://anarch.cc/uploads/carl-schmitt/political-theology.pdf
[10]: http://www.ganienkeh.net/images/manifesto_web.pdf
[11]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ganienkeh
[12]: https://xeno.tools/uploads/fennell-new-nationalism.pdf
[13]: https://sci-hub.se/https://doi.org/10.2307/25513014
[14]: https://libgen.is/book/index.php?md5=8CCB39685697A9F94D9256078BC757AE
[15]: https://xeno.tools/uploads/dionysus_eternal_return.pdf
[16]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fCEjtjkrDng&t=4289s
[17]: https://www.google.co.uk/books/edition/_/ruPtDwAAQBAJ?hl=en
[18]: https://algosov.org
[19]: https://sci-hub.se/https://doi.org/10.1017/S0022050700107612
[20]: https://cryptome.org/ap.htm
[21]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jim_Bell

Commit message:

doc/philosophy/meetings: suspend philosophy meetings until further notice

doc/src/philosophy/meetings.md, after:

# Discussion group

From Wednesday 1st May 2024-12th March 2025, there were biweekly
philosophy meetings in [darkirc](../misc/darkirc/darkirc.md) in
`#philosophy`.

The meetings are now on pause due to more pressing concerns (shipping
DarkFi).

Meeting schedule: 

| Title                                                                                                               | Date                    | Author                             |
|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------|------------------------------------|
| [Free software philosophy and open source][1]                                                                       |1st of May, 2024         | Tere Vadén, Niklas Vainio          |
| [Do Artifacts Have Politics?][2]                                                                                    | 16th of May, 2024       | Langdon Winner                     |
| [The Moral Character of Cryptographic Work][3]                                                                      | 26th of June, 2024      | Philip Rogaway                     |
| [Gold and Glory in Times of Thought-Chaos][4]                                                                       | 10th of July, 2024      | Charlotte Fang                     |
| [The Rainbow and the Worm][5]                                                                                       | 24th of July, 2024      | Mae-Wan Ho                         |
| [Squad Wealth][6]                                                                                                   | 7th of August, 2024     | Sam Hart, Toby Shorin, Laura Lotti |
| [Infocracy: Digitization and the Crisis of Democracy][7]                                                            | 4th of September, 2024  | Byung-Chul Han                     |
| [The System's Neatest Trick][8]                                                                                     | 18th of September, 2024 | Theodore Kaczynski                 |
| Rescheduled                                                                                                         | 2nd of October, 2024    |                                    |
| [Political Theology][9]                                                                                             | 16th of October, 2024   | Carl Schmitt                       |
| [Ganienkeh Manifesto][10]                                                                                           | 30th of October, 2024   | [Mohawk Nation][11]                |
| Rescheduled                                                                                                         | 13th of November, 2024  |                                    |
| [A New Nationalism for the New Ireland][12]/[Complimentary Reading - Solutions to the Northern Ireland Problem][13] | 27th of November, 2024  | Desmond Fennell                    |
| [Two Cheers for Anarchism][14] - Chapter 2, starting at 'Fragment 7', all of Chapter 4			                  | 11th of December, 2024  | James C. Scott                     |
| Rescheduled                                                                                                         | 25th of December, 2024  |                                    |
| [Will to Power][15] - Extracts (see PDF)                                                                            | 8th of January, 2025    | Friedrich Nietzsche                |
| Post Capitalist Desire, Lecture 1 - [from 1:11:30 to 2:42:00 on Youtube][16] or pages 35 to 78 in [the book][17]    | 22nd of January, 2025   | Mark Fisher                        |
| [Algorithmic Sovereignty][18] Core reading: Chapter 1 & 2                                                           | 5th of February, 2025   | Jaromil                            |
| [Economic Consequences of Organized Violence][19]                                                                   | 19th of February, 2025  | Frederick Lane                     |
| [Assassination Politics][20]                                                                                        | 12th of March, 2025     | [Jim Bell][21]                     |

Feel free to propose a text for a future meeting by sharing it in #philosophy.

[1]: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/290120192_Free_software_philosophy_and_open_source
[2]: https://faculty.cc.gatech.edu/~beki/cs4001/Winner.pdf
[3]: https://web.cs.ucdavis.edu/~rogaway/papers/moral-fn.pdf
[4]: https://goldenlight.mirror.xyz/LeUojosmx48SvEfspq1leuRTf7TJfYKJ_TtKpePczzU
[5]: https://libgen.is/book/index.php?md5=0450DE93292478112791E977474FA9BF
[6]: https://otherinter.net/research/squad-wealth/
[7]: https://libgen.is/book/index.php?md5=A0E3362AE17379B6F48CEAC520319422
[8]: https://theanarchistlibrary.org/library/ted-kaczynski-the-system-s-neatest-trick
[9]: https://anarch.cc/uploads/carl-schmitt/political-theology.pdf
[10]: http://www.ganienkeh.net/images/manifesto_web.pdf
[11]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ganienkeh
[12]: https://xeno.tools/uploads/fennell-new-nationalism.pdf
[13]: https://sci-hub.se/https://doi.org/10.2307/25513014
[14]: https://libgen.is/book/index.php?md5=8CCB39685697A9F94D9256078BC757AE
[15]: https://xeno.tools/uploads/dionysus_eternal_return.pdf
[16]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fCEjtjkrDng&t=4289s
[17]: https://www.google.co.uk/books/edition/_/ruPtDwAAQBAJ?hl=en
[18]: https://algosov.org
[19]: https://sci-hub.se/https://doi.org/10.1017/S0022050700107612
[20]: https://cryptome.org/ap.htm
[21]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jim_Bell
